---
title: Kirstie Whitaker
subtitle: The Turing Way - Reproducible, Inclusive, Collaborative Data Science
slides: https://osf.io/tws97/
picture: kirstie_2.png
video: https://youtu.be/dlycvMU45ek
layout: product
---
Reproducible research is necessary to ensure that scientific work can be trusted. By sharing data, analysis code, and the computational environment used to generate the results, researchers can more effectively stand on the shoulders of their peers and colleagues and deliver high quality, trustworthy, and verifiable outputs. This requires skills in data management, library sciences, software development, and continuous integration techniques: skills that are not widely taught or expected of academic researchers. Skills that are unreasonable, in fact, to expect in one individual team member.<br><br>The Turing Way is a handbook to support students, their supervisors, funders, and journal editors in ensuring that reproducible research is "too easy not to do". It includes training material on version control, analysis testing, collaborating in distributed groups, open and transparent communication skills, and effective management of diverse research projects. The Turing Way is openly developed and any and all questions, comments, and recommendations are welcome at our GitHub repository: <a href="https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way">https://github.com/alan-turing-institute/the-turing-way</a>.<br><br>In this talk, Kirstie Whitaker, lead developer of The Turing Way, will take you on a whirlwind tour of the chapters that already exist, the interactive demonstrations you can use and re-use for your own research, and the directions in which we're continuing to develop. All participants will leave the talk knowing that "Every Little Helps" when making their work reproducible, where to ask for help as they start or continue their open research journey, and how they can contribute to improve The Turing Way for future readers.
